.\" $Id: realpath.1,v 1.4 2024/07/12 22:56:16 tom Exp $
.TH REALPATH 1 2024-07-12 "MiscTools" "User commands"
.ie n .ds CW R
.el   \{
.ie \n(.g .ds CW CR
.el       .ds CW CW
.\}
.de bP
.ie n  .IP \(bu 4
.el    .IP \(bu 2
..
.de NE
.fi
.ft R
.ie n  .in -4
.el    .in -2
..
.de NS
.ie n  .sp
.el    .sp .5
.ie n  .in +4
.el    .in +2
.nf
.ft \*(CW
..
.
.hy 0
.SH NAME
realpath \-
expand directory and filename paths
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B realpath
[
.I filename
[
.I ...
]
]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use \fBrealpath\fR to find the full pathname of directories or files.
.bP
If one or more parameters is given, it prints the full pathname for those
directories or files.
.bP
If no parameters are given, and the standard input is a terminal,
it prints the full pathname of the current working directory.
.bP
If no parameters are given, and the standard input is not a terminal,
\fBrealpath\fP reads the standard input to obtain pathnames to expand.
.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.
.SH NOTES
There is no standard utility with this name,
though there are a few implementations.
The best known was the one by Lars Wirzenius, written in 1996.
.PP
When this program was written in June 1994,
the underlying \fBrealpath\fP call was at that point in time
specific to SunOS (and, shortly after, reimplemented in Linux).
Later, the call was made part of the standard.
.PP
The initial motivation for this program was to eliminate ambiguity
in scripts which did
.NS
FOO=`cd foo; pwd`
.NE
.PP
since SunOS did not always resolve the directory properly
when the current directory is mounted.
.PP
GNU coreutils has a \fBrealpath\fP utility, added in 2011.
Because it is part of the coreutils package,
that displaced the other implementations.
However, the GNU version is incompatible with the other versions,
making it necessary to modify scripts.
.
.
.SH BUGS
.
Probably.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.
\fBRealpath\fR is used in shell scripts to obtain a fully normalized path
for an existing directory or file.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
pwd
